Job Title:  Data Analyst

Reports to: Regional Refugee Coordinator                                             

Salary: $60,000 per year

Position Summary:

	Under the supervision of the Regional Refugee Coordinator, the Data Analyst will broadly support the information and data management for the refugee resettlement database ``ClientTrack'' in Texas. The position will provide leadership in the implementation of a new database system for the state refugee program. Assist other regions in the data management, adherence, quality assurance, data integrity.  

Essential Functions:

	Performs lead work in development and implementation of refugee data collection for the state of Texas, including the implementation of a new statewide database utilizing the web-based software ClientTrack;

	Ensure integrity of the data through regular data vetting/cleaning;

	Compile and analyze data on refugees in each region and throughout the state of Texas, involvement in services and project outcomes;

	Provide recommendations to department through ongoing data analysis such as policy and procedural revisions, document management or additional provider training. Assist refugee service agencies collect, manage, and report data;

	Train and prepare reports for the Regional Refugee Coordinators for the Office of Refugee Resettlement and other funding agencies as required;

	Provide data and information as requested by partner agencies, public inquiry, grant applications, community presentations or for internal use;

	Assist on special projects requiring research and analysis of various forms of refugee information;

	Train service providers in content and use of manuals, forms, and the ClientTrack case management database; serve as a resource to direct service providers;
	Other duties as assigned
 

YMCA Competencies (Multi-Team or Branch Leader):

	Mission Advancement: Reinforces the Y’s values within the organization and the community. Effectively communicates the benefits and impact of the YMCA’s efforts for all stakeholders. Implements effective systems to develop volunteers at program, fundraising, and policy leadership levels. Secures resources and support for all philanthropic endeavors.

	Collaboration: Develops strategies to ensure staff and volunteers reflect the community. Builds and nurtures strategic relationships to enhance support for the YMCA. Serves as a community leader building collaborations based on trust and credibility to advance YMCA mission and goals. Communicates for influence to attain buy-in and support of goals. Provides tools and resources for the development of others.

	Operational Effectiveness: Integrates multiple thinking processes to make decisions. Involves staff, program participants and community in the development of programs and activities. Ensures execution of plans. Institutes sound accounting procedures, investment policies and financial controls. Assigns clear accountability and ensures continuous improvement.

	Personal Growth: Fosters a learning environment embracing diverse abilities and approaches. Creates a sense of urgency and positive tension to support change. Anticipates challenges that can sidetrack or derail growth and personal learning. Has the functional and technical knowledge and skills required to perform well; uses best practices and demonstrates up-to-date knowledge and skills in technology.

Minimum Requirements  

	Bachelors or advanced degree and minimum of 3 years previous experience with data collection and management

	Prior experience in working with federally-funded programs strongly desired

	Prior experience working with SQL databases, report creation, and ability to communicate with end users and provide support and training

	Strong verbal and written communication skills.

	Ability to establish and maintain effective working relationships with current and potential grantees

	Interest in working with international populations and a particular passion for serving the refugee program.