QUALIFICATIONS

	quality assurance
		refugee management system, a SQL database written in python

	created data management plans
		eRED documents
		low income health care applications
		Medicaid transportation
		case note frequency dist
		collaboration with Andrew Merville at USCRI TX, the Medical Replacement Designee
			eRED database
			RMA Portal 

	experienced end user
		7 months as a clerk for medical case management and social adjustment services
		empathetic with case managers's needs and time constraints
		(sometimes I have just the first name, just the last name, mail comes with just the children's name)
		can we produce an enrollment record for case managers? 
			a CSV document with an updated roster of clients enrolled?
		when is a case file closed?
		exporting days of service from case note frequency
		the more case notes, the more services.
		if a case note is written in case notes are register

	a client should be enrolled once, then referred with complete transfer of data
	case managers should never duplicate data entry
	a case note is record of service, writing a case note should populate the days of service tracker
	potentially tagging case notes with character sequences?

	Seasoned Beginner as a MySQL administrator

	working knowledge in Windows, macOS and Linux,

	computer programming in C++ and Python

	comfort working in different file types: CSV, XML, ASCII, UTF-8

	quick study. in 6 weeks I increase my GRE subject test in Mathematics score by 3/4 of a std. dev.

	volunteer of the month dec 2016
		found rental assistance for 3 families
		accompanied clients to medical appointments
		applied and obtained low income healthcare
		worked with the most frequently seen clients in PC & SAS

	1 year experience with Git repositories for data integrity
	2 years experience in technical reporting

GOALS

	a vision for improvement
		easy demographic reports
			vetted data for ORR reporting
			managing duplication
			user performance summaries
		bidirectional reporting => compliance with ORR and utility for case managers
		utilizing metadata (for example, to isolate clients who have not been served)
			"Metadata is information that describes your data."
		smarter search functions; pulling the clients into view that the case manager has in mind
			"Using controlled vocabularies and ontologies makes it clear what you mean (because agreed definitions are part of the terms) and makes it easier to search across many data sets for information of a particular type or to perform automated processing on massive sets of data." http://library.stanford.edu/research/data-management-services/faq/managing-data-faq
		data integrity for individual refugees, regardless of case (useful in DV situations)

	program coordinators educated on the use of ClientTrack database

	to as much as possible, the use of the ClientTrack database takes advantage of case note writing for quality assurance. rather than require case managers to spend more time in data entry, we should determine methods for exporting days of service data from case notes.

	create a data management plans
		description of data (nature, scope, course)
		resposibility (PI with overall responsibility for DMP)
		designated archive (Eccovia?)
		access & sharing (public-use vs. restricted-use, timely reporting)
		selection & retention of data (XML, CSV)


	

