WSU
	M.S. in Mathematics (applied options). No thesis. Professional degree. Exams required. Program covers numerical analysis & optimization, modeling & simulation, statistical analysis. Requires Advanced Calculus, Linear Algebra, Abstract Algebra. See independent study MAT 702.

To study groundwater pollution, an ill-posed problem, I would study derivative free optimization with Assistant Professor Tom Asaki at Washington State University.

In Idaho's Treasure Valley, farmers use a network of reservoirs and canals to suspend and divert the Boise river. To minimize topsoil erosion, I would model furrow patterns that minimize water's turbidity in flood irrigated fields. In addition, I numerically simulate turbid water settles. I would suggest diversions at to create low-velocity pools where sediments might fall out of suspension. 

	nonlinear PDES
	systems theory
	applied	optimization
	image and data analysis

	Prof. Alex Khapolov
	Asst. Prof. Thomas Asaki
		derivative free optimization
		image reconstruction
	Hongbo Don
		optimization in agriculture

OSU
	M.A. in Mathematics. Option 1, thesis, 39 hours of coursework. 6-12 are thesis prep.
	first year
		real, complex, linear
		numerical analysis
		applied mathematics
		differential and integral equations of mathematical physics
		applied ODEs and PDEs

	specialties
	tomography
	mathematical fluid mechanics
	PDEs
	Harmonic Analysis

	Elaine Cozzi
		Assistant Professor
		Mathematical Fluid Dynamics
		Fluid Mechanics, Partial Differential Equations, Harmonic Analysis
	Juan Mario Restrepo
		Professor
		water resources, dynamical systems, oils spills
		in 2011, Research Consortia Studying Effects of Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill on Gulf of Mexico
	Vrushali A. Bokil
		Associate Professor
		under the mentorship of Professor H.T. Banks
	Nathan Louis Gibson
		Associate Professor
		under the mentorship of Professor H.T. Banks

CSU
	Industrial and Applied Maths. Thesis option, 35 hours. Interdisciplinary. Includes statistics, numerical analysis, modeling and methods. Calculus of variations, perturbation models, continuum models, dimensional analysis, stochastic models, diffusion, numerical PDE solvers.

	specialties
		diffeqs, scientific computation, optimization
		dynamical systems (biological emphasis)
		computational fluid dynamics
		electrical impedance tomography
		flow in porous media
		modeling contaminants
		connections with engineering & soil physicists

	Dr. Iuliana Oprea

UNM
	M.S. in Mathematics, thesis option. 26 Hours coursework. 400 or 500 level. 20 in department. 12 must be 500 level. 6 hours thesis credit. requires linear, abstract, advanced calculus.
	Exams choose three: Diff Eqns, R Analysis, C Analysis, Numerical Analysis

	specialties
		methods of applied mathematics
		geophysical fluid dynamics (Nitsche)
		stochastic potts model
		numerical approximations to PDEs (fluids and finances)
		black-sholes eqn (Lorenz)
		nonlinear phenomenon in theoretical physics (Korotkevich)
		advection & diffusion in hydrology (Embid)